=======================
duplicate-url-discarder
=======================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/duplicate-url-discarder.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/duplicate-url-discarder
   :alt: PyPI Version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/duplicate-url-discarder.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/duplicate-url-discarder
   :alt: Supported Python Versions

.. image:: https://github.com/scrapinghub/duplicate-url-discarder/workflows/tox/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/scrapinghub/duplicate-url-discarder/actions
   :alt: Build Status

.. image:: https://codecov.io/github/scrapinghub/duplicate-url-discarder/coverage.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/scrapinghub/duplicate-url-discarder
   :alt: Coverage report

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/duplicate-url-discarder/badge/?version=stable
   :target: https://duplicate-url-discarder.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=stable
   :alt: Documentation Status

**duplicate-url-discarder** contains a Scrapy fingerprinter that uses
customizable URL processors to canonicalize URLs before fingerprinting.

Quick Start
***********

Installation
============

.. code-block::

    pip install duplicate-url-discarder

Alternatively, you can also include in the installation the predefined rules in
`duplicate-url-discarder-rules`_ via:

.. code-block::

    pip install duplicate-url-discarder[rules]

If such rules are installed, they would automatically be used if the
``DUD_LOAD_RULE_PATHS`` setting is left empty (see `configuration`_).

Requires **Python 3.9+**.

Using
=====

If you use Scrapy >= 2.10 you can enable the fingerprinter by enabling the
provided Scrapy add-on:

.. code-block:: python

    ADDONS = {
        "duplicate_url_discarder.Addon": 600,
    }

If you are using other Scrapy add-ons that modify the request fingerprinter,
such as the `scrapy-zyte-api`_ add-on, configure this add-on with a higher
priority value so that the fallback fingerprinter is set to the correct value.

With older Scrapy versions you need to enable the fingerprinter directly:

.. code-block:: python

    REQUEST_FINGERPRINTER_CLASS = "duplicate_url_discarder.Fingerprinter"

If you were using a non-default request fingerprinter already, be it one you
implemented or one from a Scrapy plugin like `scrapy-zyte-api`_, set it as
fallback:

.. code-block:: python

    DUD_FALLBACK_REQUEST_FINGERPRINTER_CLASS = "scrapy_zyte_api.ScrapyZyteAPIRequestFingerprinter"

``duplicate_url_discarder.Fingerprinter`` will make canonical forms of the
request URLs and get the fingerprints for those using the configured fallback
fingerprinter (which is the default Scrapy one unless another one is configured
in the ``DUD_FALLBACK_REQUEST_FINGERPRINTER_CLASS`` setting). Requests with the
``"dud"`` meta value set to ``False`` are processed directly, without making a
canonical form.

URL Processors
==============

**duplicate-url-discarder** utilizes *URL processors* to make canonical
versions of URLs. The processors are configured with *URL rules*. Each URL rule
specifies an URL pattern for which the processor applies, and specific
processor arguments to use.

The following URL processors are currently available:

* ``queryRemoval``: removes query string parameters *(i.e. key=value)*, wherein
  the keys are specified in the arguments. If a given key appears multiple times
  with different values in the URL, all of them are removed.

* ``queryRemovalExcept``: like ``queryRemoval``, but the keys specified in the
  arguments are kept while all others are removed.

* ``subpathRemoval``: removes the subpaths of a URL based on its integer
  positions.

* ``normalizer``: removes trailing ``/`` and ``www.`` prefixes which also
  includes numbers like ``www2.``.

URL Rules
=========

A URL rule is a dictionary specifying the ``url-matcher`` URL pattern(s), the
URL processor name, the URL processor args and the order that is used to sort
the rules. They are loaded from JSON files that contain arrays of serialized
rules:

.. code-block:: json

    [
      {
        "args": [
          "foo",
          "bar",
        ],
        "order": 100,
        "processor": "queryRemoval",
        "urlPattern": {
          "include": [
            "foo.example"
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "args": [
          "PHPSESSIONID"
        ],
        "order": 100,
        "processor": "queryRemoval",
        "urlPattern": {
          "include": []
        }
      }
    ]

All non-universal rules (ones that have non-empty include pattern) that match
a request URL are applied according to their order field. If there are no
non-universal rules that match the URL, the universal ones are applied.

.. _configuration:

Configuration
=============

**duplicate-url-discarder** uses the following Scrapy settings:

* ``DUD_LOAD_RULE_PATHS``: it should be a list of file paths (``str`` or
  ``pathlib.Path``) pointing to JSON files with the URL rules to apply:

  .. code-block:: python

      DUD_LOAD_RULE_PATHS = [
          "/home/user/project/custom_rules1.json",
      ]

  The default value of this setting is empty. However, if the package
  `duplicate-url-discarder-rules`_ is installed and ``DUD_LOAD_RULE_PATHS``
  has been left empty, the rules in said package are automatically used.

* ``DUD_ATTRIBUTES_PER_ITEM``: it's a mapping of a type *(or its import path)*
  into a list of attributes present in the instances of that type.

  For example:

  .. code-block:: python

      DUD_ATTRIBUTES_PER_ITEM = {
          "zyte_common_items.Product": [
              "canonicalUrl",
              "brand",
              "name",
              "gtin",
              "mpn",
              "productId",
              "sku",
              "color",
              "size",
              "style",
          ],
          # Other than strings representing import paths, types are supported as well.
          dict: ["name"]
      }

  This allows DUD to select which attributes to use to derive a signature for an item.
  This signature is then used to compare the identities of different items. For instance,
  ``duplicate_url_discarder.DuplicateUrlDiscarderPipeline`` uses this to find duplicate
  items that were extracted so it can drop them.

.. _scrapy-zyte-api: https://github.com/scrapy-plugins/scrapy-zyte-api
.. _duplicate-url-discarder-rules: https://github.com/zytedata/duplicate-url-discarder-rules
